KHR_materials_volume (#1726)
KhronosGroup/glTF: extensions/2.0/Khronos/KHR_materials_volume/README.md

|-|------|-------------|----------|
| **thinWalled** | `Boolean` | Material describes either a two-sided surface enclosing an infinitely thin volume (true, the default) or a one-sided surface with a volume below it, defined by the mesh geometry (false). | No, default: `true` |
| **attenuationCoefficient** | `number[3]` | Attenuation coefficient (also called extinction coefficient) in inverse meters. | No, default: `[0.0, 0.0, 0.0]` |
| **volumeAlbedo** | `number[3]` | Single-scattering albedo inside the volume. | No, default: `[0.0, 0.0, 0.0]` |
| **subsurfaceAnisotropy** | `number` | Anisotropy of the phase function in range [-1, 1] | No, default: `0` |
| **thicknessTexture** | `textureInfo` | A texture that defines the thickness of the volume beneath the surface. The values are sampled from the G channel. May be used by renderers that are not able to derive the thickness from the actual geometry, otherwise it should be ignored. | No |
| **minThickness** | `float` | When using a thickness texture, a texture value of 0.0 is interpreted to be `minThickness`. When a constant thickness is used, the thickness will be `minThickness`. | No, default: `0` |

> | **maxThickness** | `float` | When using a thickness texture, a texture value of 1.0 is interpreted to be `maxThickness`. Values between 0.0 and 1.0 are linearly scaled between minThickness and `maxThickness`. | No, default: `1` |

Reviewer: Elsewhere, glTF materials allow a texture or a factor for inputs. I realize we may not want textures for `attenuationCoefficient`, `volumeAlbedo`, and `subsurfaceAnisotropy` for complexity reasons. But is there a reason to exclude a factor for `thickness`? I think you could parameterize it in the usual way, and remove the need for `thinWalled` boolean at the same time:

- `thicknessFactor`: Thickness of volume beneath the surface, 0-1, used to lerp between `minThickness` and `maxThickness`. Default is 0.
- `thicknessTexture`: Thickness of volume beneath the surface, 0-1, used to lerp between `minThickness` and `maxThickness`. Linear multiplier against `thicknessFactor`.
- `minThickness`: No change.
- `maxThickness`: No change.

Note that because the default is 0, the transmission is "off" by default (which we want) without the need for a separate property. If we did keep the separate property for that purpose, I think I somewhat prefer the terminology that Filament uses: `refractionType: 'thin' | 'volume'`.

Also — should `minThickness` and `maxThickness` specify units, e.g. meters?

Reviewer 2: I like this.
I think you mean the **volume** is off my default. Transmission shouldn't be affected.
Also, +1 for metres as the default unit for thickness. That matches the default unit of the rest of the glTF file.

Author: That would mean the thickness is computed as follows, right?

```
thickness = lerp(minThickness, maxThickness, thicknessFactor * thicknessTexture)
```

I like it, it's much more similar to the usual texture parameters used everywhere else.

However I didn't get why thicknessFactor=0 would disable the volume. Wouldn't it mean that a volume is still present, just with constant thickness = minThickness?

Maybe `surfaceType: 'thin' | 'volumeBoundary'` instead of `refractionType`? Probably also not optimal, but it would stress the fact that not only refraction is affected by the type, but also attenuation and subsurface scattering. Nitpicking, I know, but having to choose those names was the reason for me switching to a Boolean instead of an enum :-)

I will add information about the unit, it should definitely be meters for min and max thickness.

Reviewer: > I think you mean the volume is off my default.

Oops, yes.

> Wouldn't it mean that a volume is still present, just with constant thickness = minThickness?

Discussed offline – the default for both `thicknessFactor` and `minThickness` will be zero, so the volume is disabled by default. But you're correct that increasing either of these values will cause volume to be enabled.

Reviewer: Another suggestion from @UX3D-nopper that sounds useful — we could omit `minThickness` and `maxThickness`, having only two parameters here:

- `thicknessFactor`
- `thicknessTexture`

The product of the two would be defined in units of meters. When `thicknessFactor=0` (default), volume is disabled. Note that this simpler parameterization loses precision _if_ the minimum thickness of the volume is >> 0. Is it likely for minimum thickness to be non-zero in real use cases? If we need that case, the addition of a `thicknessOffset` parameter would restore the precision while keeping a simpler parameterization. In that case the thickness would be computed as:

```
thickness = thicknessFactor * thicknessTexture + thicknessOffset
```

Reviewer: There are several tools that already support loading or baking thickness maps:

- [Substance Painter](https://docs.substance3d.com/spdoc/thickness-142213479.html) (both)
- [Marmoset Toolbag](https://marmoset.co/posts/toolbag-baking-tutorial/) (bake)
- [Sketchfab](https://help.sketchfab.com/hc/en-us/articles/204429595-Materials-PBR-#sss) (load)
- [Blender](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/render/shader_nodes/input/ao.html) (bake, via AO "inside")

I could only find the units for Substance Painter, which has two settings:

1. units used in "Max Frontal Distance" et "Max Rear Distance" are the ones defined when exporting your mesh (m, cm or whatever you did set up in your scene export)
2. `units are relative to the bounding box of the object, 1.0 being the diagonal length of the bounding box`.

If there is some consistency among these tools, that might take precedence over some of the suggestions above, for me.

Author: That's very good information, thanks for sharing! I had a look at [refraction in Babylon.js](https://doc.babylonjs.com/how_to/physically_based_rendering_master) and [Filament](https://google.github.io/filament/Materials.html#materialmodels/litmodel/absorption) to see which of the two modes they consume. Documentation is a bit sparse, but from what I understand they both take the thickness in meters. Babylon.js uses factor and offset as suggested in your previous comment: `minimumThickness + thicknessTexture.r * maximumThickness`

Reviewer: Have we resolved this thread? I don't know whether something like `minThickness` and `maxThickness` (or `thicknessOffset`) are really important, but just want to verify that we're OK with omitting them as this extension moves to completion.

Reviewer 3: The `thicknessFactor` is now specified in meters, although I started a separate thread comparing it to `attenuationDistance`.  I think this old thread can be resolved, as there is no more min/max thickness.

Reviewer 3: Also I think we ruled out "min" thinkness, on the thought that any sharp edge, such as along the edge of a cube, the thickness approaches zero the closer you get to the edge.  So "min" didn't seem useful in that context, but maybe the Babylon folks have different thoughts about that.

For "max", it was just included in the thicknessFactor by allowing values higher than 1.0.

Reviewer: > The thicknessFactor is now specified in meters,

I can't find this in the specification, is this still current? The language in the extension specification seems unclear to me, and could be interpreted several ways:

>  The value is relative to the local coordinate system of the mesh's node.

# KHR_materials_volume

## Contributors

* TODO: Name, affiliation, and contact info for each contributor

## Status

Draft

## Dependencies

Written against the glTF 2.0 spec. Needs to be combined with `KHR_materials_transmission`.

## Overview

This extension adds material parameters to configure the volume beneath the surface of closed meshes, providing effects like refraction, absorption and subsurface scattering. The transparency of the surface is controlled by `KHR_materials_transmission`.

> Light hitting an object will first interact with the surface according the BSDF. The BSDF determines how much and in which direction the incident light is reflected and transmitted. Light that is transmitted enters the volume, where it is absorbed or scattered by particles inside the medium. After bouncing several times inside the object, the light will eventually hit the surface again. The BSDF is evaluated a second time, the light may now leave the object or be kept inside it if total internal reflection occurs.

Reviewer 4: > light may now leave the object or be kept inside it if total internal reflection occurs <
I think here it should say 'if internal reflection occurs' because there might be reflection event which is not necessarily TIR. TIR is called an event when angle between incident ray direction and surface normal is larger then a critical angle.

| **anisotropy** | `number` | Anisotropy of the phase function in range [-1, 1] | No, default: `0` |
| **thicknessTexture** | `textureInfo` | A grayscale texture that defines the thickness of the volume beneath the surface. May be used by renderers that are not able to derive the thickness from the actual geometry, otherwise it should be ignored. | No |
| **minThickness** | `float` | When using a thickness texture, a texture value of 0.0 is interpreted to be `minThickness`. When a constant thickness is used, the thickness will be `minThickness`. | No, default: `0` |
| **maxThickness** | `float` | When using a thickness texture, a texture value of 1.0 is interpreted to be `maxThickness`. Values between 0.0 and 1.0 are linearly scaled between minThickness and `maxThickness`. | No, default: `1` |

### Conversions

Alternatively, subsurface scattering can be parametrized with absorption coefficient **sigmaA** and scattering coefficient **sigmaS**. These are converted as follows:

```
sigmaT = sigmaS + sigmaA
albedo = sigmaS / (sigmaS + sigmaA)
```

Sometimes the mean free path length **mfp** is given:

```
sigmaT = 1 / mfp
```

> The attenuation color is a 3-channel value that goes up to infinity. By splitting it into two values, an RGB attenuation color and a distance, the color is easier to set up. In the following equation, **attenuationColor** defines the remaining, wavelength-dependent energy of a ray of white light after travelling a certain distance (**attenuationDistance**) through the medium.

Reviewer 4: As I understood AttenuationColor' is actually transmittance of the ray after traveling attenuationDistance through the medium. I think Transmittance is a better name because from 'AttenuationColor' it's bit ambiguous if it is attenuated or remaining part of the energy.

H = -normalize(*ior<sub>i</sub>* * *V* + *ior<sub>o</sub>* * *L*)

*ior<sub>i</sub>* and *ior<sub>o</sub>* denote the index of refraction of the incident and transmitted side of the surface, respectively. *V* is the vector pointing to the camera, *L* points to the light. In a path tracer that starts rays at the camera, *V* corresponds to the incident side of the surface, which is the side of the medium with *ior<sub>i</sub>*.

Incident and transmitted index of refraction have to be correctly set by the renderer, depending on whether light enters or leaves the object. An algorithm for tracking the IOR through overlapping objects is described by in [Schmidt and Budge (2002)](#SchmidtBudge2002).

The microfacet BTDF also makes use of the modified half vector and the indices of refraction.

f<sub>transmission</sub> = *T* * *baseColor* * (1 - *F<sub>R</sub>*) * (abs(dot(*L*, *H*)) * abs(dot(*V*, *H*))) / (abs(dot(*L*, *N*)) * abs(dot(*V*, *N*))) * (*ior<sub>o</sub>*<sup>2</sup> * *G<sub>R</sub>* * *D<sub>R</sub>*) / (*ior<sub>i</sub>* * dot(*V*, *H*) + *ior<sub>o</sub>* * dot(*L*, *H*))

> where *T* is the transmission percentage defined by `KHR_materials_transmission`. The F<sub>R</sub>, D<sub>R</sub>, and G<sub>R</sub> terms are the same as in the specular reflection except using the modified half vector *H* calculated from the refraction direction. See [Walter et al. (2007)](#Walter2007) for details.

Reviewer 5: The `G` term does not depend on the half vector, so can we just use `G` rather than G<sub>R</sub>? Or should G<sub>R</sub> use a modified L?

Author: The description is a bit fuzzy and I am unsure how many details we should have here... G depends on the half vector to check if V and L are on the same side of the microsurface regarding H. See [eq. 34 in Walter 2007](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~srm/publications/EGSR07-btdf.pdf). Maybe it's good enough to link the paper? Or would you prefer a more detailed explanation?

Reviewer 5: So this is the positive characteristic function, where G returns 0 if V and H are on opposite sides of the surface? `clamp(sign(VdotH / NdotV), 0.0, 1.0);`
Appendix B does not mention this, so I think it would be helpful to include here if it is now important for transmission.

Author: Yes. If I am not mistaken, it is important for reflection and transmission, and it is part of the G term in either case. I am wondering why it's not part of Appendix B? Could be that Appendix B is just not precise in this regard, or it is assumed to be handled "outside" of G. [libbsdf for example](https://github.com/NVIDIA/MDL-SDK/blob/master/src/mdl/jit/libbsdf/libbsdf.cpp#L678) has an early out if VdotH or LdotH are on the "wrong" sides of the surface (were "wrong" depends on reflection/transmission and H).

In the end, it is just important to use the modified H when dealing with refraction, and the "normal" H when dealing with reflection.

Reviewer 5: Perhaps it is worth a mention in #1717?  It doesn't appear that we are applying this term in the [sampleviewer](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Viewer/blob/88b18169541ad039efcf370ca168ea69b6b048e3/src/shaders/brdf.glsl#L35) either.

Author: The step function is now part of #1717.

Reviewer 3: @abwood is this thread resolved?

Reviewer 5: Yes, this is now covered in Appendix B.

## Overview

By default, a glTF 2.0 material describes the scattering properties of a surface enclosing an infinitely thin volume. The surface defined by the mesh represents a thin wall. The volume extension makes it possible to turn the surface into an interface between volumes. The mesh to which the material is attached defines the boundaries of an homogeneous medium and therefore must be manifold. Volumes provide effects like refraction, absorption and scattering. Scattering is not subject of this extension.

<figure style="text-align:center">
<img src="./figures/thin-thick-rendering.png"><br/>
<img src="./figures/thin-thick.svg">
<figcaption><em>Renderings of various objects (top) and corresponding top-down slice through the scene (bottom). The solid line represents the mesh. The gray area represents the volume. Thin-walled materials can be applied to open (left) and closed meshes (middle). The dashed line indicates the imaginary bounds of the infinitely thin volume. The volumetric material can only be applied to closed meshes (right), resulting in volumetric effects like refraction.</em></figcaption>
</figure>

> The volume extension has to be combined with `KHR_materials_transmission` or `KHR_materials_translucency`. Light that falls onto the volume boundary may enter the volume, depending on the transmission or translucency of the surface's BSDF. Light traveling through the volume is subject to absorption by the medium's particles. When hitting the surface from inside the volume, the light may either decide to leave the volume or bounce back, depending on the material configuration and the incident direction.

Reviewer 5: This section can only refer to KHR_materials_transmission.

```suggestion
In order for light to enter the volume, a non-zero `transmissionFactor` must be defined through the `KHR_materials_transmission` extension. Light traveling through the volume is subject to absorption by the medium's particles. When hitting the surface from inside the volume, the light will leave the volume, depending on the incident direction.
```

Reviewer 3: I'd prefer to avoid language that says KHR_materials_transmission is the *only* way for light to enter a volume.  Future extensions and 3rd-party extensions can define means for light to enter volumes.

σ<sub>t</sub> = σ<sub>a</sub> + σ<sub>s</sub>

> **NOTE**
>
> This extension does not define the scattering part of the volumetric light transport. For all further definitions we assume the scattering coefficient σ<sub>s</sub> to be zero for all wavelength, and therefore σ<sub>t</sub> = σ<sub>a</sub>.

The infinite range of the coefficient makes it rather unintuitive to control by users. To provide a convenient parameterization, this extension exposes two derived parameters: *attenuation color c* and *attenuation distance d* (see [Properties](#Properties)). The relation between the two parameters and the attenuation coefficient σ<sub>t</sub> is defined as

σ<sub>t</sub> = -log(*c*) / *d*

For rendering, we are interested in the change of light when traversing the medium. So we need to integrate the attenuation coefficient along a path of a certain length.

> In a homogenous medium, σ<sub>t</sub> is constant, and we can compute the fraction of light (radiance) transmitted after traveling a distance x via Beer's law:

Reviewer 5: Nitpick: missing formatting around `x`.  It should stand out as a variable in this sentence

If the extension is combined with `KHR_materials_transmission`, a refractive microfacet BTDF describes the transmission of light through the volume boundary. The refraction occurs on microfacets, and thus the roughness parameter affects both reflection and transmission. An exemplatory implementation is shown in [Implementation](#Implementation).

<figure style="text-align:center">
<img src="./figures/transmissive-roughness.png"/>
<figcaption><em>Transmissive sphere with varying roughness. From left to right: 0.0, 0.2, 0.4.</em></figcaption>
</figure>

If the extension is combined with `KHR_materials_translucency`, a diffuse transmission BTDF describes the transmission of light through the volume boundary. The object becomes translucent. The roughness parameter only affects the reflection. `KHR_materials_translucency` may be a good choice if the appearance should match a material which exhibits strong subsurface scattering. Examples for these dense materials are skin or candle wax. 

<figure style="text-align:center">
<img src="./figures/translucent-roughness.png"/>
<figcaption><em>Translucent sphere with varying roughness. From left to right: 0.0, 0.2, 0.4.</em></figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer 3: This section needs to move to one of the other draft extensions, such as SSS or translucency. (If the latter, it should get updated screenshots showing thin-walled differences between transmission and translucency).

Reviewer 6: I'm on it

<figure style="text-align:center">
<img src="./figures/transmission-translucency.png"/>
<figcaption><em>Comparison of combining subsurface scattering with either transmission or translucency. Left: Rough transmission and subsurface scattering. Middle: Translucency and subsurface scattering. Right: Translucency without subsurface scattering using a thin-walled material. Colors are adjusted manually so that they look similar in the three configurations. This adjustment is needed in order to account for differences in distances and to minimize the impact of energy loss from the rough microfacet BTDF.</em></figcaption>
</figure>

## Implementation

*This section is non-normative.*

The microfacet BTDF f<sub>transmission</sub> defined in `KHR_materials_transmission` now takes refraction into account.

```
                  abs(LdotH) * abs(VdotH)                 ior_o^2 * G * D
f_transmission = ------------------------- * ----------------------------------------
                  abs(LdotN) * abs(VdotN)      (ior_i * VdotH + ior_o * LdotH)^2

> ```

Reviewer 5: It's not too clear while reading this that `f_transmission` must use the modified H value defined below.  Perhaps we could define the modified half vector first? 

I would also recommend that `D` be renamed to `Dt` to be consistent with KHR_material_transmission notation.  `Dt` is more clear in that D that uses the modified half vector.

`ior_i` and `ior_o` denote the index of refraction of the incident and transmitted side of the surface, respectively. `V` is the vector pointing to the camera, `L` points to the light. In a path tracer that starts rays at the camera, `V` corresponds to the incident side of the surface, which is the side of the medium  with `ior_i`. See [Walter et al. (2007)](#Walter2007) for more details.

Using Snell's law, the half vector is computed as follows:

```

> H = -normalize(ior_i * VdotH + ior_o * LdotN)

Reviewer 5: I'm missing something here.  H is a vec3 but ior and dotProducts are all scalars.  

From EnterprisePBR, it appears that half vector should be calculated as:
`H = normalize(-V * ior_i - L * ior_o)`

T(d) = e<sup>(-log(a) / d) * d</sup> = a

In the next step, we map from our subsurface color parameter ρ<sub>ms</sub> to single-scattering albedo ρ<sub>ss</sub>.

ρ<sub>ss</sub> = 1 - (4.09712 + 4.20863 ρ<sub>ms</sub> - sqrt(9.59217 + 41.6808 ρ<sub>ms</sub> + 17.7126 ρ<sub>ms</sub><sup>2</sup>))<sup>2</sup>

The single-scattering albedo is the color at each particle in the medium. Light that is scattered by a particle will be tinted with this color. Note that scattering will happen many times in the medium until the light leaves the volume, so the overall color ρ<sub>ms</sub> will differ significantly from the albedo of the particles ρ<sub>ss</sub>. Via the mapping users can control the albedo of surface, i.e., the color that an object appears to have in the final rendering. The mapping was introduced in [1].

Now that we have computed σ<sub>t</sub> and ρ<sub>ss</sub>, we can finally derive σ<sub>a</sub> and σ<sub>s</sub> as follows:

σ<sub>a</sub> = σ<sub>t</sub> (1 - ρ<sub>ss</sub>)

> σ<sub>s</sub> = σ<sub>t</sub> ρ<sub>ss</sub> = σ<sub>a</sub> - σ<sub>s</sub>

Reviewer 2: Is this right? Shouldn't σ<sub>s</sub> = σ<sub>t</sub> - σ<sub>a</sub>?

```json
materials: [
    {
        "extensions": {
            "KHR_materials_volume": {
                "thicknessFactor": 1.0,
                "attenuationDistance":  0.006,
                "attenuationColor": [ 0.5, 0.5, 0.5 ],
                "subsurfaceColor": [ 0.572, 0.227, 0.075 ]
            }
        }
    }
]
```

## Properties

The extension defines the following parameters to describe the volume.

| | Type | Description | Required |
|-|------|-------------|----------|
| **thicknessFactor** | `number` | The thickness of the volume beneath the surface in meters in the local coordinate system of the node. If the value is 0 the material is thin-walled. Otherwise the material is a volume boundary. The `doubleSided` property has no effect on volume boundaries. | No, default: `0`. |
| **thicknessTexture** | `textureInfo` | A texture that defines the thickness, stored in the G channel. This will be multiplied by `thicknessFactor`. | No |

> | **attenuationDistance** | `number` | Density of the medium given as the average distance in meters that light travels in the medium before interacting with a particle. | No, default: +Infinity |

Reviewer 7: Is this the average distance between particles in the medium that will affect how many times the light will either scatter or be absorbed?

Author: Maybe not exactly how many times (the light bounces infinitely), but more the average distance light travels in the medium until it hits a particle. The particle will then either scatter the light or absorb it. How much of it is absorbed or scattered is given by the absorption coefficient (not to be confused with the attenuation coefficient!) and the particle's albedo (i.e., the single scattering color derived from the subsurface color). 

If subsurface color is 0, the single scattering color becomes 0. Thus, there is no scattering, and only in this case (!) absorption coefficient = attenuation coefficient.

If subsurface color is > 0, single scattering color also becomes > 0. Now the particles scatter and absorb the light, according to some ratio.

Note that by parameterizing with attenuation coefficient and particle albedo we cannot construct the case of no absorption, scattering only.

The attenuation distance is the scalar part of the attenuation coefficient. The attenuation coefficient is the inverse of the mean free path length.

attenuation_coefficient = 1 / mean_free_path = -log(attenuation_color) / attenuation_distance

> | **attenuationColor** | `number[3]` | The color that white light turns into due to absorption when reaching the attenuation distance. | No, default: `[1, 1, 1]` |

Reviewer 7: Is this parameter here to model the effect on absorption at different wavelengths, ie similar to what happens when light is absorbed in water and blue/violet light reaches further - making a sea appear blue-ish?

If so - maybe this could be mentioned?
If not, could you please explain the physicality of this parameter?

Author: Yes, exactly, attenuation color is the wavelength-dependent part of the attenuation coefficient. The description in the table here is just a small teaser. The detailed relationship between attenuation color and distance is explained in section "Absorption and Subsurface Scattering" (which describes the relationshop between the parameters and the physical quantities) and, to some extend, also in section "Base Color and Absorption".

Reviewer 7: Thanks @proog128 
While I read the `Absorption and Subsurface Scattering` section I was not able to deduce the source of the parameter.

Author: I will try to improve the connection between the section and the table. Something like (additions in bold):

> To provide convenient parameterization for users this extension **provides three user-friendly parameters** attenuation color a, attenuation distance d and subsurface color ρms (see section "Properties"). **We will now describe how to derive the physical parameters for absorption and scattering in the medium from the user-friendly parameters.**

                "attenuationDistance":  0.006,
                "attenuationColor": [ 0.5, 0.5, 0.5 ],
                "subsurfaceColor": [ 0.572, 0.227, 0.075 ]
            }
        }
    }
]
```

## Properties

The extension defines the following parameters to describe the volume.

| | Type | Description | Required |
|-|------|-------------|----------|
| **thicknessFactor** | `number` | The thickness of the volume beneath the surface in meters in the local coordinate system of the node. If the value is 0 the material is thin-walled. Otherwise the material is a volume boundary. The `doubleSided` property has no effect on volume boundaries. | No, default: `0`. |
| **thicknessTexture** | `textureInfo` | A texture that defines the thickness, stored in the G channel. This will be multiplied by `thicknessFactor`. | No |
| **attenuationDistance** | `number` | Density of the medium given as the average distance in meters that light travels in the medium before interacting with a particle. | No, default: +Infinity |
| **attenuationColor** | `number[3]` | The color that white light turns into due to absorption when reaching the attenuation distance. | No, default: `[1, 1, 1]` |

> | **subsurfaceColor** | `number[3]` | The overall color perceived at the surface due to subsurface scattering. | No, default: `[0, 0, 0]` |

Reviewer 7: I would propose to remove _subsurfaceColor_ and rely on _baseColor_ - mainly for two reasons:
- I don't think there is a realistic usecase where we need both _baseColor_ AND _subsurfaceColor_
- It could be argued that we are already (sort of) modelling this effect with the diffuse contribution.

I think it would simplify the solution to only have _attenuationDistance_ and _attenuationColor_ without sacrificing material representation.

Reviewer 7: To follow up on yesterdays discussion on the pbr tsg call:
I am happy with the naming as it is since it is a combination of several physical properties that we do not need to model separately (scattering + absorption)

Reviewer 7: I would also like to add a non linear factor for the absorption rate (attenuation coefficient) - a lot of our translucent materials use this.
What I mean by this is an exponential function for the attenuation as the light interacts with particles within the volume - a value of 1.0 means linear attenuation, larger values will make the light absorb faster and vice versa.

Author: > I would propose to remove subsurfaceColor and rely on baseColor [...]

There are a lot of similarities between *subsurfaceColor* and *baseColor*, but there is one important difference: *baseColor* can be textured (2D), but *subsurfaceColor* must be constant (or a 3D texture). Thus we need to split it up.

> I would also like to add a non linear factor for the absorption rate (attenuation coefficient)

Do you mean providing an *attenuationCoefficient* parameter instead of *attenuationColor* and *attenuationDistance*? Note that *attenuationCoefficient* = -log(*attenuationColor*)/*attenuationDistance*.

Reviewer 7: > There are a lot of similarities between _subsurfaceColor_ and _baseColor_, but there is one important difference: _baseColor_ can be textured (2D), but _subsurfaceColor_ must be constant (or a 3D texture). Thus we need to split it up.

Hmm, I don't think I understand the reasoning for this.
As defined in the transmission extension the baseColor is used to tint the light that enters through the medium.
I think the same should be the case for this extension - or am I missing something?

Conceptually, I see it something like this:
Light enters through the medium and is colored by the baseColor, it travels _attenuationDistance_ before interacting with a particle (inside the volume).
If light escapes the volume after interacting with a particle the entered light will be colored by the attenuationColor and affected by the attenuationDistance.
If light escapes the volume without interacting with a particle it will be the same as the entered light.

Is this in line with what you have in mind?

Reviewer 7: > Do you mean providing an _attenuationCoefficient_ parameter instead of _attenuationColor_ and _attenuationDistance_? Note that _attenuationCoefficient_ = -log(_attenuationColor_)/_attenuationDistance_.

I think so - sorry for not grasping all of your calculations correctly :-)

The effect I am after is a non-linear falloff of escaping light based on the object thickness - as the above calculations does not take thickness into account I cannot see how that would be done.....

Reviewer 2: Hi @rsahlin. This extension is all about thickness. The parameters combine to do exactly what you're describing. The light is attenuated based on thickness. The attenuation coefficient is calculated as @proog128 said but it is applied using the thickness and Beer's Law.
`baseColor` is a constant absorption only at the surface.

Reviewer 7: Again, sorry for not being able to fully follow your calculations.

I think that I need to spend some time understanding this and how it relates to the properties we want our materials to exhibit....
